# class `IC74HC165` 

ADT representing a 74HC165-based serial input buffer.

A buffer consists of one or more daisy-chained [IC74HC165](#classIC74HC165) ICs each of which maintains an 8-bit status byte which reflects the state of its parallel inputs.

This library allows the hardware interface to a buffer to be configured and initialised and allows the buffer to be interrogated at the byte or bit level.

## Summary

 Members                        | Descriptions                                
--------------------------------|---------------------------------------------
`public  `[`IC74HC165`](#classIC74HC165_1ac17185ee8727bde3534ef41874097a4a)`(uint8_t gpioClock,uint8_t gpioData,uint8_t gpioLatch,unsigned int buffers)` | 
`public void `[`begin`](#classIC74HC165_1ab4806d6f940716df34b5e56c23c42d60)`()` | 
`public unsigned int `[`read`](#classIC74HC165_1ac61097459317b9225f046f3d3a954579)`()` | 
`public void `[`configureCallback`](#classIC74HC165_1a296a44175ab189699c07efd871ec4267)`(void(*)(unsigned int status) callback,unsigned long callbackInterval)` | Configure an automatic callback for handling buffer data.
`public void `[`callbackMaybe`](#classIC74HC165_1a2602d672057149a6f99967be23fce37a)`(bool force)` | Maybe invoke the configured callback.

## Members

#### `public  `[`IC74HC165`](#classIC74HC165_1ac17185ee8727bde3534ef41874097a4a)`(uint8_t gpioClock,uint8_t gpioData,uint8_t gpioLatch,unsigned int buffers)` 

#### `public void `[`begin`](#classIC74HC165_1ab4806d6f940716df34b5e56c23c42d60)`()` 

#### `public unsigned int `[`read`](#classIC74HC165_1ac61097459317b9225f046f3d3a954579)`()` 

#### `public void `[`configureCallback`](#classIC74HC165_1a296a44175ab189699c07efd871ec4267)`(void(*)(unsigned int status) callback,unsigned long callbackInterval)` 

Configure an automatic callback for handling buffer data.

This method configures a mechanism for invoking a callback function at a regular interval and works in concert with [callbackMaybe()](#classIC74HC165_1a2602d672057149a6f99967be23fce37a).

Make a call to [configureCallback()](#classIC74HC165_1a296a44175ab189699c07efd871ec4267) in setup() and make a call to [callbackMaybe()](#classIC74HC165_1a2602d672057149a6f99967be23fce37a) in loop().

#### Parameters
* `callback` - this function will be called with the current an array containing the status bytes of each IC in the buffer daisy-chain. 

* `callbackInterval` - the interval in milliseconds between successive invocations of the callback function (defaults to 1s).

#### `public void `[`callbackMaybe`](#classIC74HC165_1a2602d672057149a6f99967be23fce37a)`(bool force)` 

Maybe invoke the configured callback.

This method should be called from loop() and, if force is false, will determine when to invoke the callback function based upon the specified update interval.

#### Parameters
* `force` - if true then invoke callback immediately (defaults to false).

Generated by [Moxygen](https://sourcey.com/moxygen)